The title of this slide was WebObjects
and Security because that's what we
thought we'd need after the last session,
calling security in to manage
the Objective-C issues.
But I think that actually
people are behaving pretty well,
and I appreciate that.
But obviously there's
other kinds of security,
such as making sure that the
right people can see the right
data and the wrong people don't.
And for that, we have David Neumann.
David?
Okay.
Okay, I've got a lot to cover,
so if I do this right,
I'll talk real fast and hopefully be able
to follow or it won't be too confusing.
This basic things I'm going to
cover include a security concept,
some coding techniques,
and I created a special kit
for this conference that
I call the Woe Security Kit,
and it includes a bunch of stuff.
And in demoing some of the concepts
that you can roll your own,
I'm also going to be demoing, in effect,
aspects of the security
kit at the same time.
And then I'll be covering
some B2B applications.
And security, this is a big word.
I heard someone said in an earlier talk,
"You know, I want to know about doing
security with my application.
Can you tell me about making my app,
you know, doing security with it?" And,
you know, that's a really big thing,
and I'm not even going to
be able to cover all of it.
I'm going to focus on secrecy,
which is what most people think
of when they think of security,
some detail on the concept of integrity,
and a little bit, well,
I say not covered there,
but I mean there's this tiny
smidgen on availability.
Okay, so this is sort of the
outline of the talk.
I'm going to talk about
cryptography first,
authentication techniques next,
and that will be the heart of the thing,
access control and enterprise objects,
and finally, integrity of transactions.
And time permitting,
I'm going to get to the fourth bullet.
Hopefully I'll be able to get to it.
Okay, cryptography.
Originally, I wasn't even going to
do the next five slides,
but I'm going to go through it
anyway just to make sure everyone
has a good quickie background primer
on the two kinds of cryptography,
secret key and public key.
Secret key is the kind of stuff
that you're probably used to.
Public key is the stuff
that SSL is based on,
among other things.
So the basic problem with a secret key
cryptography is you have to have this
secret in order to have a secure channel.
So you've got to get a secure
channel to get a secure channel,
and that's a bit of a problem.
So that's not a half of it.
Then there's the key
distribution aspect of things.
Once you've got this secret
exchange with your customers,
if you're Acme Corporation and
you want to encrypt information
with your customers,
you pretty much have to establish
this secure channel through some
formal meeting with all of them,
and that's a pretty inefficient
sort of thing to want to do.
So there's this key distribution issue.
Now,
you could give the same key to everybody,
but then that would be very secure.
So let's move on to public key crypto.
There is no secure channel problem in
theory because there's two pieces to it.
The key,
the private key that only Acme knows,
and the public key that they share,
and that is a public artifact.
It can be shared in the clear.
And it also addresses the key
distribution problem because it
can be addressed in the clear.
Everybody can get the same public key
and talk to Acme in a secure fashion.
I say almost because
there's two loopholes.
The first one is covered by the issue,
well, the question is how do you
know Acme is the real Acme?
And we have certificate
authorities like VeriSign,
Intra, and so on.
We have certificate
authorities like VeriSign,
Intrust.net, CyberTrust,
etc., etc., that you can use as
a trusted third party to issue
these kinds of public keys in
the form of digital certificates.
Now, there's other questions here as
well I'm not going to be able
to really get to in any detail.
What is a secure hash?
What is a digital signature?
How do you know which CAs to trust?
How do you know it is trust VeriSign,
for example?
How can you tell that you
don't have like a forged ID?
You just have this information
with a public key in it.
How do you know it's a trust?
How do you know it's actually from
a valid certificate authority?
And how can you get the
ID to encrypt a message?
If you want to send something to Acme,
it's an efficient way
to get their public key.
And I said there's two loopholes,
and what's the second
public key crypto loophole?
I'll cover that one later.
Okay, SSL.
We're getting closer to web objects now.
This is an implementation of
public key crypto on the web.
The basics in one slide,
if you can summarize SSL in one slide.
Acme.com has a digital ID.
Your browser checks that the
ID is issued by a service.
You check that the ID is
issued by a CA that it trusts.
Your browser encrypts some random
secret and sends it to the server.
The server uses that secret as a
secret key for secret key cryptography.
And you're doing secret
key cryptography there for.
Now, in using this with web objects,
in some instances,
if you're the developer and
not the system administrator,
you're done, man.
That's not your problem.
If your app can only
be accessed over SSL,
you just push that whole puppy
on the guy managing your Netscape
server or IIS or Apache or whatever.
But if you have an application where
part of it is going to be secure and
part of it is going to be insecure via,
you know, SSL, then you have to know
about some more things.
You have to know how to
construct these URLs that are
absolute instead of relative,
which gets us to the next slide here.
Sort of the problem,
although it's not a problem per se,
a problem in this particular context,
but is web objects
generates partial URLs.
It does not generate absolute.
That way,
your application code doesn't have
to know about some of these things.
Your application code doesn't
have to know about some
detail about the deployment,
that detail being your web server.
In code,
it would be nice not to have to tell it
what your web server is in any fashion.
And with a partial URL, you can do that.
It just assumes whatever web
server was used to access the
application in the first place.
But if you're going to force
SSL from a non-secure page,
you're going to have to
create URLs that are full,
that have the host name and
the secure protocol in there.
So forcing this in web
objects is a big problem.
And web objects,
there's three ways you can do it.
There's some private Objective-C API you
could use to form the full URLs,
and that's documented in this
tech info tech note that's online.
That's the URL for it.
Or you can create a custom WoW hyperlink
and WoW form implementation.
This is sort of what
I've done in the past.
Or there's this clever
little redirect technique,
and this technique is also
documented in the info center.
And this method lets you
basically use the normal elements.
You have to create your
own custom hyperlink or
WoW form in order to do that.
And you can create your own hyperlink
or WoW form in order to make it work.
But the one downside of that third bullet
is you can't control the granularity
of this at the subpage granularity.
The second technique is really nice
and good for most applications,
but if some of your links need to be
secure and some need to be insecure,
you may need to do the second bullet.
So here's just an example.
If you were going to implement
your own custom secure hyperlink,
here's sort of the ingredients of it.
Your secure hyperlink component would
contain declaration very much like this.
For a WoW generic container,
it's got an element of A for anchor.
It's got a couple of -- you've
probably heard the href binding,
which is basically the explicit href
that's going to show in the page.
You probably have not heard
of the action -- excuse me,
the invoke action binding.
This is a neat way of
basically saying for this href,
invoke this server-side action.
Normally you do that all in one.
There's one binding in a WoW hyperlink.
It's action equals some
method in your page.
And after you've basically
got two bindings for that,
one that constructs the URL,
you want to represent that action.
And so this is how that works.
And if you want a starting point,
take a look at WX hyperlink in
the component elements framework.
That's in WebObjects examples frameworks.
You'll find it in the info center.
And in your implementation
of this component,
you'd have a custom version of
that method I'm calling href.
And my simplistic method hardcodes the
protocol and the host name and then
appends that to the component action
URL that you get from the context.
And that's it.
So it's actually fairly trivial to do.
Except now you have to use
secure hyperlink everywhere
instead of WoW hyperlink.
Okay.
So this is security.
So it's going to be boring.
My demos don't have any flash.
There's nothing swirling around.
It's just -- well, you'll see.
Okay.
This is my little test app.
This is the application that I've
included in the WoW security kit.
Which, by the way,
will be available at a download at
the WWDC download site or whatever.
I'll give you the URL for it later.
So it's got a bunch of different things
I'm going to be testing here later.
But right now we've got this
go insecure and go secure.
Right now I'm in secure mode.
So I'll go insecure.
And I'll go secure.
Insecure.
Secure.
You see, you know,
Steve has that action with the window,
you know.
I got this.
Yeah.
Okay, that was that.
That was demo number one.
Okay, now sometimes you might want
to encrypt programmatically.
And why you'd want to do that,
a few occasions, actually maybe a lot.
The number of examples I gave
there are if you've got some
passwords in the database,
some personal information,
credit card numbers.
Some people I know at a
company lost some of those.
And the other question is how.
This is kind of a sticky issue because
there's all these export restrictions
and national security agencies such a big
tightwad about this and the export thing.
So you just can't ship something
that has strong cryptography usually.
You have to ship something
without it and you have to
link the other stuff in later.
And then you have to pay a fortune to,
well, never.
Anyway, you've got BSAFE here and JSAFE.
These are commercial crypto libraries.
One is C-based, one is Java-based,
and they're both from RSA data systems.
I suppose these are the big ones,
the ones that most people use.
I don't know how many people out
there use in the commercial space,
but there are some free ones,
or sort of free.
Intel CDSA, I believe,
includes some crypto stuff.
Microsoft's CryptoLib is free,
but it just runs on Win32.
I think SS, I don't even know how
to pronounce this thing.
I think it's SS Lee.
Some people say SS Leay, whatever.
Hey, it's for free.
You can get it and do
some cryptography with it.
Now, on the encryption techniques,
the one thing that is really simplistic
is to explicitly encrypt stuff.
But if you have some EOs and
you have like a password thing
in the enterprise object,
you might add a couple
accessor methods to it,
like encrypted passwords,
set encrypted password,
and do the encryption
and decryption in there.
And you might actually add a little
state to your object to have a cache
so you don't have to keep doing that
every time the thing is accessed.
That's just one thing
that I've seen done.
Now questions I'm not going
to be able to answer here.
Maybe we can talk about it at the end.
Or what key size should you
use for this sort of thing?
And does my data get less secure
as computing power increases?
I've kind of got my
own opinion about that.
Okay,
this is basically the meat of the thing,
authentication techniques.
Authentication is basically
broken into these,
I call them like four
types of compartments.
You've got the logical and the physical.
And on the logical part,
you have to answer the questions,
are you who you claim to be?
And if so, do you have access?
And then there's the physical piece,
the presentation specific and
the business policy specific.
It turns out it's difficult
to make a login panel.
You think, well,
a login panel is a couple
text fields and a button.
It could be easier than that.
But there's the questions
about when to log in.
Where do you go when you log in?
There's different ways of logging in,
all these different sort
of presentation styles.
So I've tried to cover some of these.
I've tried to cover some of
these things in the security
kit without tying you down.
But anyway, when to log in.
This is one of the
questions that gets asked.
Maybe you want a WebObject session.
You don't even allow the session
unless they're logged in,
which can be kind of tricky since
WebObjects creates a session
by default when you access it.
So you could allow surfing,
like creating a session.
You're going to mind your own business
through the web app and then try
to do something sensitive and then
doing an on-demand type of login.
Or maybe you do the on-demand login
and then the user re-navigates.
You do an on-demand login and
you go straight to the page
where they wanted to access,
which is actually usually
the most desirable.
And then there's the session timeout.
Session time's out and then you
want to maybe instead of showing,
"Hey, your session timed out.
Great." How about just the login
page so you can get right back
into where you were leaving off.
Okay, and then there's this notion
I call access posture.
Basically, I've tried to encode a way
or you probably have to
do this by hand yourself.
Where you want to default to deny access.
Okay.
Default to deny everything or
default to allow everything.
Default to allow or deny direct actions.
Default to deny or allow privacy.
Maybe a page can only be viewed
under SSL or maybe you don't
want to allow viewing any
pages unless they're over SSL,
but with certain exceptions
for each of those three cases.
Okay.
And then these are like the
three kinds of -- actually,
there's four kinds of ways
of gathering credentials.
I've listed four there: HTML page,
HTTP login panel.
By that, I mean that little challenge
thing that comes up,
and you type.
It's actual physical panel instead of
a page that your browser raises up.
A digital certificate or a cookie.
And there's many different
ways to verify credentials.
And the top stuff is very
presentation-specific.
In fact,
it's entirely presentation-specific.
The ones in the middle are
very your company specific.
And the WoE off policy framework provides
all -- it's not -- it doesn't provide
the cookie authentication technique,
but it provides the other three.
And it provides some delegation hooks for
your custom verification business logic.
Now going to the sessionless login,
this gets to the one area where it's
sort of like availability related.
A session can be a kind
of a heavyweight thing.
So you might not want to
create one if you can help it.
Maybe you only want to allow
them if the person is allowed to
-- has successfully logged in.
You also might want to be able
to -- with the sessionless login,
you can bookmark the login page.
It also lets you have -- be
able to attempt to log in and
not get a session expired.
I've had some customers who were
kind of complaining to me once.
Okay, I created this login page.
My customer was there.
They left it up there.
They went and got some coffee, came back,
logged in,
the thing said session expired.
I didn't do a damn thing.
Why did the session expire?
So it'd be kind of nice to have a
sessionless login that -- where you
could not run into that irritation.
And in order to use this,
if you're using an HTML page,
you should use a wolf form
and some direct action.
So these are sort of the basic
logical things you need to do.
This first sentence is hard to say.
I think default and action show up
about three or four times in it.
Use a direct action action handler
as a default action handler.
That's -- I've got the code
for that in the next slide,
but I think that's
actually clearer than that.
Anyway, forceweb.js,
go to your login page.
And you can see that it's a
little bit more complicated
than the page instead of main.
By default we go to main and main may
have things which directly or indirectly
kick off a session that you don't want.
And then when you create your login page,
you have to be very careful you
don't call session anywhere.
So you do that.
You create your login
page and it doesn't.
And yet sessions are getting
created and you're wondering why.
And it turns out you've got a component
on your page and that component
happened to refer to a session
which meant the session got created.
And then you got rid of all those and go,
okay, everything's hunky dory.
And you go,
session's still getting created.
And that could in fact happen because
maybe there's a component action.
If there's a woe hyperlink and
you bound that action to it
and that shows up on the page,
well, component actions imply a session.
So one will be created for
you to put that session ID in
and when the page returns.
So you have to be really, really careful.
It might not be WebObjects.
It might be your code actually.
So be really careful about that.
Now this is the sort of the code that you
can use to sort of implement all this.
And this is the code that you can
use to sort of implement all this.
And there's other code involved.
But this is sort of what I call
the secret handshake type of code.
So in your direct action subclass,
you'd want to override default action
and return login page instead of main.
That will take you to the
login page instead of the,
whatever the main page is.
The second point there forces the system,
instead of like defaulting to
the component action handler when
you initially access your app,
it will use the direct action action
handler which does not create a session.
And that's what we're going to do.
And then we're going to do a separate
action handler which does not create a
session unless you explicitly tell it to.
So the combination of those two things
will let you have a sessionless login.
So let's do a demo of that.
Alright, this is HTML,
so let's go to the policy editor here.
Okay, it's already HTML.
Good.
Alright, so I'll go to this.
I've got various links here
that do various things.
This is the private one,
so this one needs to be over SSL.
This is going to require a login,
so I'll just do a login here and fail.
I'm going to successfully log in.
And there I am.
So, I just got a flag that says when I'm
logged in and I'm also over secure mode.
So, anyway, that was that exciting demo.
So, let's move on.
Ok, HTTP challenge panel,
now this sounds like it should
be really easy to do and
unfortunately it's tricky as hell.
There's a tech note in the info
center that shows you how to do it.
And in order to make it work,
your well-response object must
emit certain statuses and it has
to also set a certain header and
then you have to look for a certain
kind of header when it comes in,
oh and then you get all that working
and it doesn't work because the
web server you're using has an
interface that doesn't actually
pass the authorization header.
And then once you've got all that and
you think you're out of the woods,
you get this blob of base 64 encoded
muck that you have to like walk through.
So it can be a little tricky.
The first to get you started,
those are the,
that's the status you need to set
and the header you need to set
on the outgoing response to at
least force the panel to come up.
Then you need to look for a header
named authorization on the incoming will
request and look at the content of that.
And CGI with Netscape at least
does not pass that header.
Other web servers with CGI may,
I'm not sure.
NSAPI definitely does and this
demo is all happening on NSAPI.
They should be, yes.
Yeah.
In fact,
I actually made them kind of wordy so,
you know,
you'd be able to maybe treat them
as sort of like a mini outline.
This is something that could be
useful if you're decoding Base64 data.
This is just part of the standard JDK,
the Base64 decoder object.
And once you have a normal character
string that you get from that,
you can parse the string and get
the username and password out of it.
Okay, so I'll show that.
Go to HTTP Panel, Submit,
and I'll start a new session,
one I'm not logged in with.
And I'll go to the login required,
pops up this little panel.
Now,
one of the things that's kind of neat
there is that this login technique,
it's using the exact same business
logic to actually do the login,
but, you know,
it was able to kind of on the
fly change the whole way in which
credentials were gathered there using
that little policy framework thing.
So, anyway, more on that later.
Do you need to move on?
I don't have one of those
little things to throw at that.
Okay,
logging in without a login panel cookies.
I've kind of done this
once and regretted it.
Because you do this,
you stick the username and password
in the browser and then this guy who
has administration capability decides,
"Oh, I'll access this from someone
else's computer," and you just left
your password in their computer.
So, probably not a good idea.
Plus, I guess it was recently it came out
that if you're an enterprising website,
you can pretty much get everyone's
cookies if they're using IE.
So, maybe that's a feature.
. . .
Now, if you're going to log
in without a login panel,
you could use digital certificates.
This is really the
ultimate in user security,
although it does have a bit
of baggage that comes with it.
It reverses the role of
username and password.
By that I mean,
basically the SSL protocol proves
that you are who you say you are,
and then you decide
whether you have access,
as opposed to the other way around.
And obviously it requires
SSL to make that work.
Now if you're in a
WebObjects application,
if you get a digital certificate,
it's going to come in on a
header called client cert.
And once you've got that client cert,
it's encoded in this
asyn1.blob in Base64 format.
Now you could go and walk that
and parse it yourself or you could
use sun.security.x509 and just
use that collection of classes and
just create yourself an x509 cert
right out of that blob for you.
It saves you a bit of time.
And then you might want to validate its
status in your code to actually see if
the certificate hasn't been revoked.
And the security kit includes a wrapper
for a framework from ValCert that
wraps such a type of status checker.
Now there's one little sort of hang up in
all this when you use it with WebObjects.
Well, there's two ways you can grant
access to digital certificates.
You can just leave it all at the web
server and configure the web server
to trust certain CAs and certain
digital certificates issued by
those CAs and just be done with it.
You know, they pass that test,
they're in.
If not, they don't get in.
But odds are you might just
want to configure it with
the CAs you wish to trust.
Let the certificate come into
your application and then look at
the contents of the certificate,
who the person is, where they're from,
et cetera, et cetera,
and then decide whether
or not they get access.
And that sounds great
except like the slide says,
the WebObjects adapter don't
actually pass the cert along intact
or they don't even pass it at all.
So the WoW security kit includes
some source code for CGI and
NSAPI adapter in binary form.
The binaries and the source
that pass the certificate
correctly and don't even leak.
So,
this brings me to that second loophole.
Just because you have an unexpired
digital ID issued by a trusted CA,
does not mean that it's good.
It could be revoked.
It'd be-- If you-- If your application
just trusted a certificate like that,
it'd be very analogous to you going to,
like, Target or whatever,
whipping out your credit card, saying,
"Hey look, credit card, it's a visa.
Okay, give me $1,000 worth of
stuff," and they just did it.
Like what?
You know, it's a visa card,
it's got a hologram, it's good.
Right?
Now, they're going to take it,
they're going to swipe it through
some little device and check
whether or not it's actually
been stolen and it's hot as hell.
So, you probably ought to check the
ID and there's two ways of doing that.
You can download a certificate
revocation list from the certificate
authority or you can contact a VA to
check the status of the certificate.
Okay, now I'm going to kind of get off
into a little bit of la-la land here.
I'm going to try and go
through these kind of fast.
In fact, I should probably skip them,
but I think it's important that
some of this information is known.
It wasn't really known
to me six months ago,
so let me just kind of run through it.
The way this works with the user is that,
you know, that user has,
if they have a certificate,
they've got a private key,
and they unlock that private
key with a passphrase.
And at first,
this struck me as kind of bogus.
I mean,
we go to all this trouble to have this
certificate with this unbelievably
encoded long 10,000-bit key,
and then I unlock it with FUBAR.
You know, just something not right there.
So, but unlike username
and password scenario,
this passphrase is something you created.
It's not shared with anyone.
It's just, and it never leaves
your computer in theory.
It's something just between
you and the computer,
and only you know it.
So it's not quite as bad,
but it's still a little weak.
And there's this other sort of downside,
too.
You've got this private key in a file.
So you pretty, a username and password,
if you can remember it,
you can pretty much take
it with you anywhere.
But now you have to sort of
carry this document with you,
and you have to put it on a floppy
if you want it to be portable.
So typically,
these things aren't portable.
They just sit on one machine.
And having things in files is
a pretty extraordinarily lame
way of establishing security.
So there's been some things that
have been called smart cards.
That try to address this,
where you put all this
information on a smart card.
The smart card has a CPU that
does all the crypto on it.
The private key never leaves the card.
So the hacker would have to steal
your card in order to impersonate you.
And there can be some smart cards
that can be attached to devices to
accept your passphrase directly.
And for the truly paranoid,
that device can be a biometric.
So, you know,
you could basically log into a website by
sticking your smart card into a computer.
And then you can put your
smart card into a reader,
putting your thumb on it,
and then you're logged in.
So that's pretty good security.
Unless someone cut your thumb off.
So.
Okay, another demo.
Okay, I'm going to close IE here and
come back into it because I want
to show you the thing prompting
for a digital certificate.
I'm just going to do a
digital certificate login,
so I'll go to the Policy Editor here
and pick certificate.
And I'll go to something
that requires a login.
And in this case,
my computer is not hooked
up to the internet,
so I couldn't actually go out to
check the status of the certificate.
Actually, that was a-- that was
actually-- that page is private.
Let me change the policy on that
page so it isn't private anymore.
Let's see, page two, remove.
I think I would have had this
set up before I came in here,
wouldn't you?
So a panel pops up.
It asks for your certificate.
You pick the one you want.
I happen to have three.
I'm just going to pick
this one and go to it.
So I'm in secure mode now.
Now I'll go to the Login Required page.
It says okay,
your certificate was not granted access.
And the user info that you
can't read unfortunately says,
could not get status response,
validation results,
response status equals no.
So you might have your
own policy for this.
You might just grant them all
or you might do something else.
The point is I have a
delegate hook that you call.
It passes in the certificate and you
can do anything you want in that hook
to determine what you're going to do.
So okay, going back to this.
[Transcript missing]
that append response
check will handle that,
but if it's a direct action,
I mean someone can just
type that in there,
they don't need a page for that,
they can just type that right in
their browser and go straight there,
so this is the choke
point for handling that.
For generating pages,
it's append response,
for handling direct actions,
it's this method, perform action name.
It passes in the name of the
action you're about to fire,
then, you know, the full path to it,
like foobar slash action name,
and if you put some guardian
code in these two places,
you can pretty much
protect things pretty well.
So this is sort of an example of
what code like that might look like.
I've got append response,
I've got some hypothetical method
called should deny page generation,
and if you shouldn't,
and then you just call
super and process as normal,
but if you should not,
if it's illegal for you to go
there because you're not allowed,
maybe because you're not logged in,
I create a login page and
set the content on it,
and I get the content by generating
a response on the login page there.
So there's a lot going on there.
I'm going to go ahead and put a link
on that line right there in the middle,
but that's one way of dynamically popping
up a login panel if you're not allowed.
Now, to do on-demand login,
this is that thing I talked about where
you aren't allowed access to something.
Login panel pops up and then you just
successfully pass the test and you
just immediately go to the place that
you want to go instead of having to
re-navigate into all this other nonsense.
And the way I recommend doing that
is when you create that login page,
set the name on the page.
Don't create an instance of a component
or a page and set the page on that.
Because I've actually seen some
people doing that and I guess
that's fine in most cases,
but there can be side effects
when you generate a page.
If you're not allowed to
go there or even see it,
why should you even construct the thing?
You might be doing something
in Awake or in the constructor
that you don't want to do.
So if you just pass the page name,
in most cases that's going to be
lighter weight and more secure anyway.
So let's do that.
I'm going to have to
change the policy here.
I'll go to Panel and let's see,
login is required for this.
So I'm going to page three.
That's the page I want
to go to and I'm in.
So now if I try to go back
and access that again,
you know,
the panel doesn't come up because
the session knows that I'm logged in.
So that's that.
Now the Security Kit.
What I've got in this thing is a
modified WOA adapter as I talked about.
I included a security
white paper in there,
which kind of goes into more
detail than the presentation does.
It's got this WXAuth Policy Framework,
which incorporates all the stuff you've
been seeing me play around with here.
I've also got a framework that wraps
some stuff from a company called,
I think it's Silo.
They're Swedish.
Maybe it's Silu or whatever,
but it's... I made a plug-in.
It's a plug-in that'll do a
digital signature in your browser.
It's got a framework for that.
Then there's the Valcert framework
that I've wrapped there and created
a Java wrapper for it as well.
And then the demo app itself,
which uses all of the above.
So the things that are
in the auth policy thing.
I've got the credential
gathering that you've seen,
hooks for Custom Business Logic.
I've got this notion of
access posture for pages,
actions, and privacy.
There's the SSL access
toggling support in there,
just one method you have to call
to do that little toggle between
secure and insecure pages.
Then there's the sessionless login
support and some other stuff.
The easiest way to find out how
to use it is just to take a look
at the cfn.app that I've created.
Now, unfortunately,
the only way I was able to really
guarantee lockdown of the application was
to force you to subclass your component
session direct action and application
from my abstract superclasses.
Sorry about that, but you know.
That's security for you.
It's constraining.
Policy can be set in code
or be a GUI component.
That component you saw
there is part of the kit.
You can drop that on a page
and control your policy
interactively with that thing.
You can get it at this link:
Enterprise.apple.com/wwdc2000.
In there, I think you'll find a directory
with the name of my session,
like 409, I believe.
In that, I've got two files.
One is the source code stuff
with all the frameworks,
and the other one is just this
big honking blob that has the
freebies from CeeLo and Valsert.
Let's do a demo of this thing.
Actually, you've sort of seen part of it.
But anyway, you kind of see I've got
different resources here.
I've got a page which--let me just
sort of get a new session here.
Okay, I got page one which you
can access in any case.
It's always okay to access page one.
Page two used to be private.
I'll go and make it private again.
Actually, I'll show you how this works.
Page two.
Okay, I'll actually go in secure.
I'm on a secure link.
So if I go--if I come
in over a secure link,
the thing detects that I did not
access this page over SSL and goes,
"Whoa, you're not supposed to see this
unless this thing got encrypted.
So I'm not even going to send it.
I'm going to send you
this instead." Okay,
and you saw how I was able to
like flip that on and off by just
adding a page name to a list.
That's what I meant by an access posture.
So sort of go back to that policy editor.
So I've got these three access postures.
One is for page generation.
So I'm defaulting to denying all page
generation with those exceptions.
Page 1, page 2, policy editor,
page and main are okay.
You can see those without logging in.
I've got only one direct
action that I'm allowing,
the default action.
That's the action that gets
called when the page is initially
created on session creation.
And then there's a should
deny all pages not secured.
Right now I'm allowing all pages
to show up under non-SSL except
for those three pages right there.
And, you know, there's some other things
going on here as well.
But, I mean,
that's sort of the main part of it.
So move on to the next thing.
This guy with the demo thing is
having to flip back and forth.
He's probably getting pissed.
Okay.
Access Control.
Now this is the notion of, okay,
they've gotten into your application.
Now what?
Did they just get like to walk all over
everything and see everything they want?
But I think in my experience it's
come down to answering two questions.
And it comes down to answering
your EOs answering these questions.
Given an instance of entity A,
can user B see it or, and if so, edit it?
And this access depends on the
state of both of these things.
What kind of EO is being edited and what
kind of user is attempting to edit it?
If it's administrator, maybe they get to.
If it's some other Joe Schmo,
maybe they can't.
And this is sort of what I would call
the basic access control protocol
that your EOs might implement.
Can show and can edit,
getting passed in a user.
I assume everyone who has an EO model
who has a commercial application
is going to have a user entity.
So that's the thing that
would get passed in here.
And this might be a sample hierarchy
that you'd have that's security oriented.
You'd have generic EO which would
implement the default access policy.
You'd have secured EO which would
dictate certain schema because
these are EOs that need to be
secured as opposed to not shown.
So that might have to have certain
relationships to other objects to work.
And then I've got product in
that little diagram which is
an example of a concrete EO.
So you'd never have an instance
of a generic EO or security EO.
You'd only have instances
of a concrete subclass.
So this is a sample implementation
of what generic EO might look like.
Both returning true,
therefore your default access policies
allow everyone to see and edit.
And then you have exceptions.
Now for secured EO,
this is just again a sample
implementation and I assume that
anything that inherits from secured EO,
that those entities have a 2-1
relationship to a user table
called creator and it's got
a 2-many relationship to a,
also to the user table called owners.
So if the user is equal to creator,
then it's equal to user table.
return true.
If the user passed in happens to be
one of the people that owns the thing,
return true.
Else, return false.
And you can see my can edit policy says,
well if you can see it, you can edit it.
Now you can make this more elaborate
but the beauty of about putting
this in this abstract superclass
called secured EO is that if,
you can have a pretty sophisticated
policy that all of your enterprise
objects implement in one place.
And the logic is in the EOs.
It's not in the top of the
pages asking these questions,
deciding what you can see
and what you can't see.
It's down below.
All your pages have to do is
know how to ask the question.
They don't have to implement the policy.
Now if the policy gets more interesting,
you might use this thing called
Discretionary Access Control.
And if you did, you'd want to add more
relationships than the ones I had,
like creator, owners, groups, permission.
And basically this would mimic
how the UNIX file system works.
And if you're really anal,
like the Department of Defense,
you might have Mandatory Access Control.
So you've got, instead of permissions,
you have these things
called security levels.
And instead of groups,
you have this thing called compartments.
And in addition to just adjusting
what you can see and edit,
it actually affects more than that.
It affects what you can do in terms
of inserting information into,
in this case, a database.
So my example here is to actually
implement Mac in WebObjects,
you'd have to take advantage of some
delegates on the editing context.
So if certain compartments--if
you're a user,
if you're a secret user and
you're editing things in
the marketing department,
you cannot physically edit the web.
So you can't physically edit the web.
You can't physically save or insert
information into the accounting
table that's unclassified,
for example, which is totally opposite
of what you think on UNIX.
I mean, if you're the root user,
goddammit,
you can write anywhere you want.
You know,
that's the whole thing about being root.
But in this case, you know,
if you are Mr.
Super Top Secret,
you can't write anything
except top secret.
So your editing context--
Delegate would make sure that before
it actually allowed an insert to happen
that certain relationships were set.
And if they weren't set,
it would basically reject
or raise an exception.
Getting to integrity,
this is the fourth section.
Aspects of integrity are
data corruption testing,
making sure something
hasn't been tampered,
verifying the origin,
and it's implemented using digital
signatures and public key cryptography.
And the key thing here
is a digital signature.
And a digital signature is created by
doing something called hashing a message.
That's this little thing
that takes your message,
puts it into something fixed size,
and then you use this
private key to encrypt that.
And that encrypted thing
is a test to your message,
and that's a digital signature
in 100 words or less.
Nonrepudiation.
This is this thing that is really great
to have in the e-commerce space where
you can prove that that jackass actually
bought the $10,000 rocking chair.
Okay?
So...
In the physical world,
you use ink signatures.
In the digital world,
you use digital signatures.
So business-to-consumer
digital signatures.
This requires, unfortunately,
some client-side stuff.
I think this is one reason this hasn't
really taken off in the consumer space,
because you need all this stuff.
But the clients require
a browser plug-in,
and example applications would
be employee form processing,
a brokerage enrollment account,
paperless workflow, and authorization.
Now, there is one development that's
happened here that American Express did.
I don't know if everyone realizes it,
but you know these blue cards?
This is a smart card, right?
Now, you've seen the commercial of them
twisting it and turning it and
pulling it and all the other bullshit.
Well, they don't tell anybody.
This is actually a digital
certificate on here.
It's issued by a company
called CyberTrust,
which used to be a division of
GE and was bought by a CA company
called Baltimore out of Ireland.
And you really could do
cryptography on your system
if they ever get around to it.
So it's sort of interesting.
People don't even realize it.
But there is something getting out there.
So slowly, I guess,
it's getting into the consumer space.
Remind me not to leave that there.
So I'm going to do a
demo here of a... See,
I was going to originally make
this whole like elaborate thing.
I was going to have all this graphics
on here and end up with this ugly thing.
But I'm going to log into this guy.
And actually this needs to be over SSL,
so let's go secure and go back to it.
Okay, so this is like the sort of
business plan I had over talking
to a friend of mine at lunch.
I said, "You know,
why don't we have this like
website that you access over SSL,
these digital signatures,
and you digitally sign a confession.
And then someone in the
Vatican responds to you." Okay?
You did something really bad, like,
"I like sheep," say, you know?
And this is going to load a plugin which
has the information I'm about to sign.
So I'm going to pick the
certificate I'm going to use,
enter my passphrase,
and sign and send this.
This is basically what the server got.
It got the certificate I used to sign it,
and this thing at the bottom is
just the Base64 encoded signed blob.
I have proof that I agreed,
I wrote the statement,
and that I did what I did.
They know, and they can maybe send
me an email saying,
"You're forgiven." I bring this up
because it does get to the point of,
"Who do you trust?" I sent
this to this website,
confession.com website, and I think,
"I trust these guys.
They have the certificate.
It's issued." What I didn't know
was that their private key was
compromised the other day by another
company operated out of the Cayman
Islands called extortion.com.
and they have this business of selling
information to you for a profit.
So you have to check credentials or
something like that could happen to you.
So anyway, going back to the slides here.
Okay,
business-to-business digital signatures.
Now this is instead of the consumer
talking to your WebObjects application,
this is two WebObjects applications
talking to each other directly or
just two non-WebObjects applications
or you talking to a non-WebObjects
application or them talking to you.
And an example of this is basically
any kind of EDI message and the classic
one among many is the purchase order.
So in WebObjects,
there's some infrastructure
for this that was added in 4.0.
Direct actions are a great way of
exposing API to your application
on the web over port 80,
over HTTP and so forth.
And in 4.5, I added a couple of things
which makes it even easier.
It was very difficult in 4.0 to
open--to basically encode talk
to remote WebObjects application.
Now if you knew all
about socket programming,
all the other stuff and hey, you know,
real programmers know about sockets
but not everybody knows about sockets,
okay?
And it is a bit cumbersome
and stuff sometimes.
Now it's very easy in 4.5.
I mean you can create a request, encode,
send it to a remote website,
get a well-response back,
encode and do all that.
Now the next question is what's the
content you put into those things?
And the standard that's
coming out is XML.
So you'll see some, you know,
there's XML support in 4.5 for--it's
already easy to generate XML.
WebObjects is very good.
It's very good at generating any kind of
content but what--if you got some from
some other source like another WebObjects
application or some other random entity,
you didn't really have
anything to parse it.
And the IBM parser that's included,
you know, you can use to parse it
into meaningful data.
So just a simple quick B2B scenario here.
PEO is issued to WidgetCo by
Acme Corporation.
It creates an XML document.
It signs it using Java's
sun.security package which
includes digital signature stuff.
You encrypt this information
using WidgetCo's public key
so it's nice and private.
And you sent--and you send
it using the WillMessage API.
And then on the other end,
WidgetCo receives this PEO from Acme.
They decrypt it with their private key.
They verify the digital
signature is valid.
Basically, they'll be doing the simple
digital signature test.
They make sure the ID is valid.
I mean,
someone could issue a purchase order
for $10 million with the video equipment
and we're just going to take that?
You know, you want some credentials
or in the physical world,
you have a lot of credentials.
You have a fax that's signed.
But in the digital world,
you need to do this mathematically.
So, you know, you'd want to check
the digital ID on that.
Well, I'll go to that anecdote later.
Create a digital receipt.
This is what you'd want WidgetCo to do.
They could basically take
all this information,
just tie it up in a bow, right?
They've got your signed request.
They know that they agree to do it.
They get something called
a digital timestamp.
And they wrap it all up in
their digital signature.
And then they return this
and maybe even store it.
And so now they have mathematical
proof that you asked for this.
And that you agreed to it at this time.
So it's a pretty neat thing.
So in summary,
we covered some cryptography,
a little primer on how it works.
And mainly some stuff on SSL and how
to do that in a WebObjects application.
A bunch of stuff on
authentication techniques.
Some stuff on access control
in enterprise objects.
And then integrity of transactions
using digital signatures and so forth.
So...
More information,
you've seen this about a billion times.
Who to contact: Tony, Ernest, and Q&A.
Okay?